We have seen the definition of an integer
program for the vertex cover problem.
Now I want to discuss a related
linear programming formulation.
What is an integer program in general?
The general form is as follows.
Minimize or
maximize an objective of the form
c1x1 plus c2x2 plus plus cnxn
subject to the constraints such as
A 1 1 x1 + a 1 2 x 2+ + a 1n xn >b1 for
the first constraint and
a whole set of say m constraints.
In this course all of our problems will
be modeled by integer programs where
you can add the constraint that for every
i Variable xi must be between 0 and 1.
Finally, for every i,
vertex i must be an integer.
An integer, that's why it's
called integer programming.
So we have this perfect integer
program for vertex cover.
If only we could use an algorithm for
solving integer programming, we'd be done.
But of course it's not possible.
Integer programming is NP-hard.
Why then?
Why are people so
interested in integer programs?
Because they provide inspiration.
They provide initial
tools to use to design
better algorithms for related Problems.
In particular,
let me show you a related linear program.
This linear program is the same
as the integer program.
Minimize the same objective with
the same first constraint with the one,
same second constraint Same last
constraint except for the last line.
X i, that no longer has to be an integer.
X i now is just any real number.
With this apparently small,
apparently harmless modification,
suddenly the capacity of the prime changes
Linear programming can be
solved in polynomial time.
This was discovered about 30 years ago.
And since then linear programming has
been a basic tool for the design of many,
many problems,
many solutions for optimization.
There are two ways to
present a linear program.
One is more detailed,
the other one is more abstract, but
both of them are equally valid.
The same linear program can be
represented by writing c one,
c two, c n, a one one, a one two,
b one, b two n and so on.
Everything.
Or in a more compact fashion by saying
Minimize the dot product of C and X.
What is C?
C is a vector in RN with
Coordinants C1C2CN.
What is X?
X is also a vector is RN with coordinates
X1X2XN What is the dot product
of vector c with vector x?
It is c1x1 plus c2x2 plus cnxn.
So, by writing c dot product x,
we just have a more compact notation for
the same objective function.
Similarly, if we look at the constraints,
their constraints can be written
more compactly using a matrix.
Matrix a with m rows, n columns,
coordinates a-i-j.
Matrix a, apply to vector x.
Must be greater than a recall to vector b.
B is a vector in our m dimensional space.
Vector b one b two b m.
Greater than recall means
coordinate per coordinate.
X must be in the hyper cube zero one to
the n Meaning every size between 0 and
1 and x is a vector of RN meaning
every [INAUDIBLE] is a real number.
Thus these are two completely
equivalent notations for
the same linear program,
no one is better than the other.
Depending on your taste you can choose to
write it in the first or the second form.
It's two presentations for the same thing.
Thus, if you have an integer program,
you have a similar linear program that
looks identical except for the last line,
replacing the constraint xi integer
by the constraint xi real number.
The complicity changes drastically,
when IP is at the home,
the corresponding LP is
solvable in polynomial time.
So, we have an integer program,
for vertex cover.
Therefore, we can write
the corresponding linear program.
Every vertex u, The corresponding
variable, xu, must be between 0 and 1.
Every edge , we must have xu
+ xv greater than or equal to 1.
And the objective is still the same as for
the integer program it came from.
We now have a linear program related to
the integer program For vertex cover.
Now comes that crucial step.
We are going to use this
linear program to design
a good approximation algorithm finally for
vertex cover